HTTP(HyperText Transfer Protocol) is an application protocol that exchanges information between a client computer and a local or remote web server. In this process, a client sends a text-based request to a server by calling a method like GET or POST. In response, the server sends a resource like an HTML page back to the client.The first released version of HTTP is HTTP 1.1.In order to overcome the problems faced , a new version HTTP 2. was released.

HTTP 1.1 vs HTTP 2.0

Prioritisation:

HTTP 2. offers a feature called prioritization of data where developers can decide which page resources will load first. For Ex. when a client makes a request for a news webpage which contains images, content, banners etc., they can decide which data should load first like whether content should load first or the image or the banners.In HTTP 1.1, only after the first data is processed next is displayed.
   
Multiplexing:

HTTP/1.1 loads resources one after the other, so if one resource cannot be loaded, it blocks all the other resources behind it. In contrast, HTTP/2 is able to use a single TCP connection to send multiple streams of data at once so that no one resource blocks any other resource. HTTP/2 does this by splitting data into binary-code messages and numbering these messages so that the client knows which stream each binary message belongs to.

Server push:

Typically, a server only serves content to a client device if the client asks for it. But in modern webpages, which often involve several dozen separate resources that the client must request. HTTP/2 allows a server to "push" content to a client before the client asks for it. The server also sends a message letting the client know what pushed content to expect . Ex. When we can send a  Table of Contents of the book before sending the whole thing.

Header Compression:

Small files load more quickly than large ones. To speed up web performance, both HTTP/1.1 and HTTP/2 compress HTTP messages to make them smaller. However, HTTP/2 uses a more advanced compression method called HPACK that eliminates redundant information in HTTP header packets. This eliminates a few bytes from every HTTP packet. Given the volume of HTTP packets involved in loading even a single webpage, those bytes add up quickly, resulting in faster loading.

